You may be wondering what to do after BBA? You may feel that there is no scope for BBA. But this is not true, every course has its value and every degree programme has its own importance.

Just read this article till the end you will get your answers

Bachelor of Business Administration
BBA is most preferred and pursued next to engineering and medical courses by many students after the completion of 12th. There is always a rat race to join medical and engineering soon after the completion of 12th. There may be many reasons for this as the students will undergo a lot of stress. They get confused due to various factors like parent’s force, peer pressure, suggestions from different sources, friendship and many more. But students should be very cautious about choosing their career. They should not go with the flow and land in trouble.

So, it is suggested to have a glance of this article before deciding to join any undergraduate programmes.


What is BBA?
Bachelor of Business administration (BBA) is the undergraduate course that provides broad knowledge about the functional aspect of an organization.

BBA is a 3-year degree programme which trains the students on managerial skills required in the field of management. The students of today have many opportunities to explore numerous options available in BBA. The students can easily build their career in the management field by joining BBA.

The BBA programme can be opted by students of all the streams: science, commerce and arts. The BBA programme offers the students with the relevant knowledge and training in management skills and leadership skills. These skills prepare them to handle the managerial roles and entrepreneurship with ease.


Benefits of doing a BBA programme
The students can get a lot of benefits by opting BBA programmes. The students can develop themselves at both levels; professionally and personally. Professionally, the BBA programme offers a good step towards career growth.

The best-performing students can adorn many managerial levels in the organizations. They will also be promoted to decision making positions in a short time.

At the personal level, the students will develop many qualities like leadership, entrepreneurship, negotiation skills, management skills, analytical skills etc. These qualities ensure the holistic development of the BBA students.

Apart from this there are many other benefits that the BBA programme offers, they are:

The BBA programme acts as a gateway to a number of job opportunities in different sectors like Marketing, Education, Finance, Sales, Government etc. You name it you have it.
The BBA programme gives an in-depth knowledge of business to the students. The BBA programme shapes the students into successful entrepreneurs by teaching them the tactics of observation, judgement, risk-taking abilities and decision-making capacity.
The BBA course trains the students with different qualities like entrepreneurial qualities, leadership qualities and management skills.
The BBA programme acts as a strong base for pursuing MBA courses. The BBA students will be learning all the aspects of the management at their BBA course duration. The BBA course gives a basic understanding of the management topics and it becomes easy for BBA students to join MBA and perform better.
The BBA programmes provide an opportunity for the students to work as interns in many organizations. BBA students get better exposure to the work culture of the organizations. The BBA programme empowers the students with better business knowledge of the organizations.
The BBA programme helps the students to build stronger business acumen and makes them competent to take splendid decisions that will benefit the organization’s success rates
The BBA course helps the students to develop out of box thinking capacities and makes them unique and stands out of the crowd.
The students pursuing a BBA programme will be equipped with practical skills with a better knowledge of global ideas and prepare them for future workspaces.

Some of the Specializations of BBA
As time passes the industry trend also changes accordingly. The advancement in new technologies, new strategies, new business ideas, new ventures have given room to more specializations and new subjects.

BBA has also developed its wings into different specializations. The changing trend in the industry has created new job opportunities for skilled professionals in different sectors. The industry today looks for specialists who are talented and capable to do multitasking and the demand is more for talented multi-tasking professionals.

BBA which was once only limited to a few subjects has changed its dimensions today. Due to the demand of the industry, the BBA programmes have introduced many specializations that are relevant to the industry. The students can choose from a variety of specializations according to their interests.

Some of the specializations that are offered by BBA programmes are:

BBA Global Aviation
BBA Logistics & Supply Chain Management
BBA Strategic Finance
BBA Business Analytics
BBA Entrepreneurship
BBA Aviation Management
BBA Finance and Accountancy
BBA Travel and Tourism Management
BBA Hospitality and Event Management
BBA Finance and International Business
BBA Global
The students can choose their desired specializations and build their careers in management with the BBA degree in hand. As it has already mentioned BBA has spread its wings into different sectors with unique specializations. The students can study their interested subjects and land in best careers.

Job Roles Available after BBA
The BBA students can have thousands of job openings soon after the completion of their BBA degree. The BBA is a versatile degree and the BBA students can find a job at almost all the fields across nations with no barriers attached.

Some of the job roles that are available after the BBA programme are:


Accountant
Accountants are professionals who are good in numbers. They are required in all the businesses irrespective of they are small or large. It may be a small provision shop owner or an owner of huge supermarkets, everyone needs an accountant to look after their earnings daily. The accountants are responsible to prepare financial documents and ensure that the tax operations go smoothly


Financial Advisor
Financial Advisors are responsible to look after the financial health of the companies and people. The financial advisors guide the people and the companies to manage and allocate the money generated and make their businesses successful. They also help people to make smart decisions on investments and help them to become financially stable individuals.


Marketer
The marketers plan and coordinate the marketing efforts of the businesses. They are required to promote the products and create the demand in the market. They create marketing strategies for their products and try to generate demand for that product. They are also required to oversee the development of the product and monitor the marketing trends within the business targeted markets.


Commodities Trader
The commodities traders buy and sell commodity contracts on behalf of the companies. They procure the raw materials for the company and sell the finished product to the markets. The commodity trader is essential to maintain a proper balance between the buying and selling of the goods and raw materials and also should take care of the finished products.


Human Resources Executives
As the name itself denotes that it is related to man-power. The human resource executives are responsible to hire the new employees for the organizations.

They are required to screen the candidates according to the requirement for a job role. They are responsible to schedule and conduct the interview sessions for the right candidates. They are also required to judge the candidates based on different parameters like communication skills, attitude, technical capability, dedication. They are also required to formulate the employment policies, maintain employment records, address employee grievance redressals in the organizations.


Loan Officer
The loan officers are required in banks and financial institutions. They are responsible to approve or deny the loans for the people and businesses. They are responsible to evaluate the eligibility of the people and business. They are responsible to maintain accurate records for the loans given to the people and ensure that the complete loan is recovered during the specified loan repayment period.


Real Estate Agent
The real estate agents help people to buy and sell properties. The real-estate brokers are required to pass the licensing exams to start their careers.

They can practice individually or can work under licensed companies like 99acres.com, No Broker.com, Magic Bricks.com etc. The BBA can act as the base to become a real estate agent. The real estate agents are required to have in-depth knowledge of the market rates according to the locations. They are required to provide accurate information for both buyers and sellers.


Manager
The managers are responsible to keep the things to run smoothly in an organization. They are required to perform almost all the daily operations irrespective of the organizations they are hired.

No matter if it is a small retail shop or a large production facility. They are responsible to oversee all the tasks that are performed by the organization and ensure that the workflow is smooth without any blockages


Stock Brokers
The Stock Brokers mainly work in share markets i.e. BSE and NSE. Their main role of these stock brokers is to buy and sell the shares of the different organizations that are listed in the share markets.

Many organizations sell their shares in the open share markets for generating liquid cash. So, that the normal public can buy those shares and generate revenue for the organizations. This ensures a money flow in the markets and ensures that the country’s economy is strong. The stockbrokers are required to monitor the shares daily and ensure that proper money flow is maintained in the country’s markets.


Entrepreneur
Entrepreneurs are the individuals who organize and operate their own businesses. The individuals who come with their own ventures and businesses are termed as entrepreneurs. The BBA degree can provide a perfect base for the people who are interested to start their own ventures.

The entrepreneurs come with innovative ideas and develop new businesses in the market. With the advent of the internet, we are witnessing a huge raise in entrepreneurs in the last decade. So, if you are interested to be the boss of your own, then you can choose to become an entrepreneur by joining BBA programmes

Concluding Words
As it is already mentioned that every degree has its importance and no degree is considered as a waste. It is up to the students how to use their chosen degrees for their growth. The interested and dedicated students can easily land in best job opportunities and can see a fruitful career irrespective of their degrees. Similarly, the BBA programme is also unique. The BBA degree provides a proper base for many career opportunities. The interested students who join BBA courses can have many job opportunities and can have a good career growth. They can land in many challenging roles after the BBA programme and can prove themselves to reach the high levels in their careers. Further, the BBA programme not only helps the students to grow professionally but also personally.
